1) Take grated paneer, boiled, mashed potatoes, corn flour, garam masala, cashews and salt in a bowl.

2) Mix well using hand, it should come together like a dough.

3) Divide the mixture into 12 equal portions and make smooth, round balls.

Collage of 3 steps showing making kofta mixture and shaped kofta balls.
No-Fry Method:

4) Heat appe (paniyaram) pan on medium heat. Add around 1 teaspoon of oil to each section. Once hot place kofta.

5) Once they get golden brown from the bottom side then flip them and cook another side. If needed you can add few more drops of oil.

6) Similarly, fry the sides as well to get even browning from all the sides.

7) Once they get golden brown from all the sides then remove it on a plate and keep it aside.

Collage of 4 steps showing cooking kofta in appe pan until golden brown from all sides.
OR Deep-Fry Method:

1) While you are shaping the balls heat the oil in a kadai or pan on medium heat for deep frying. Once the oil is hot, add a few kofta gently into it.

2) Keep moving them occasionally so it gets even browning from all the sides. Once golden brown from all the sides remove them using a slotted spatula and keep them on a paper towel lined plate.

Collage of 2 steps showing kofta into hot oil and ready fried kofta in slotted spoon.
Making Gravy:

1) Take onion, tomato, ginger, garlic, cashew nuts, and water in a pan, turn the heat on medium.

2) Let it simmer for 15 minutes or until onion tomatoes get soft. Let it cool down a bit.

3) Then take this mixture into the blender jar.

4) Blend into a smooth puree.

Collage of 4 steps showing boiling onion tomato and grinding into the blender to make malai kofta curry.
5) Heat oil and butter in a pan on medium heat. Let the butter melt.

6) Add whole spices (cloves, cardamoms, cinnamon, bay leaf) and saute for 1 minute or until you get a nice aroma of the spices.

7) Add the prepared puree.

8) Mix well and cook for 5-7 minutes or until it thickens slightly. While cooking gravy it may splutter, so partially cover the pan with a lid and cook. Do stir occasionally to make sure that it is not sticking to the bottom of the pan.

Collage of 4 steps showing tempering whole spices in butter and cooking gravy.
9) Add red chili powder and coriander powder.

10) Mix well and cook for a minute.

11) Add water and salt. Mix well and let the gravy simmer for 5 minutes.

12) Add garam masala and kasoori methi (crush between palms before adding). Mix well.

13) Add heavy cream and mix.

14) Add koftas into the gravy, turn off the stove and serve malai kofta immediately. If serving later then do not add kofta right now otherwise they get soft and may fall apart. So only add them at the time of serving.

Collage of 6 steps showing adding spices, cream and kofta into the gravy.
💭 Expert Tips For BEST Malai Kofta
Do not over-boil the potato. Over cooked potato has more moisture and if that is used in making kofta then kofta turns out super soft and may fall apart while frying or after adding into the gravy.