How to Make Paneer Bhurji- Step by Step Method
Crumble 250 grams of paneer and set it aside. If using store bought paneer, remember to soak it in hot water for 20 minutes before using in the recipe. Also crush 1-inch ginger, 4 to 5 large garlic cloves and 1 to 2 green chilies using mortar and pestle and set it aside.

1- Heat 1 tablespoon oil and 1 tablespoon ghee in a pan on medium heat. Once hot, add 1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds and 1/4 teaspoon fennel seeds and let them sizzle for a few seconds.

2- Then add 1/4 teaspoon of hing (asafetida) and stir.

3- Add 1 medium red onion (chopped) along with crushed green chilies, ginger and garlic that you had prepared earlier and stir.

4- Cook for 5 minutes until light brown. You can add a pinch of salt here so that onions cook faster.

step by step pictures of making paneer bhurji
5- Add 2 medium chopped tomatoes (I de-seed them, this is optional) and cook for 3 minutes until softened.

6- Then add the following spices:

1 teaspoon coriander powder
3/4 teaspoon pav bhaji masala
1/4 teaspoon turmeric powder and
1/4 teaspoon red chili powder (I usually use Kashmiri red chili powder which isn’t spicy).
Also add 3/4 teaspoon salt, stir and cook the spices for 30 seconds.

7- Then add the crumbled paneer and mix until everything is well combined.

8- Cook the paneer for 2 to 3 minutes. Do not overcook else it will become rubbery and chewy. Add in 2 tablespoons chopped cilantro. Squeeze in some fresh lemon juice and paneer bhurji is ready to be served. You can also sprinkle some garam masala or pav bhaji masala on top before serving.

step by step pictures of making paneer bhurji
Serving Suggestions
Personally, I love to eat it with plain paratha. It think it makes the best combination. However, you can also eat it with roti or tandoori roti. Another great way to eat it is to on top of a toast. Makes a very filling and nutritious breakfast or lunch.

You can even pair it with avocados or a side of salad for a healthy lunch or serve as a side with chana dal or dal tadka and jeera rice.

Tips & Notes
The spice levels can be adjusted to taste. To make this paneer bhurji recipe spicier, add more green chilies and also add more of the red chili powder. I would skip the Kashmiri red chili powder and use the hot red chili powder in place.
Remember to not overcook the paneer, it will turn chewy if you overcook it. The bhurji made from fresh paneer is softer than the one made with store-bought paneer.
You can add veggies to this bhurji like green peas, carrots, spinach, red peppers, these all will make the dish more filling.
If you don’t have pav bhaji masala, you can use garam masala in place.