Paneer Butter Masala (Paneer Makhani) Recipe with Step by Step Pictures. Popular restaurant style paneer butter masala made easily at home. Creamy and flavourful butter paneer is so easy to make at home. You can serve it with naan, roti, pulao or jeera pulao.

Home
PANEER BUTTER MASALA RECIPE
Published: Sep 1, 2023 | Last Updated On: Oct 14, 2023 by Aarthi

16
SHARES
 Jump to Recipe  Jump to Video  Print Recipe
Paneer Butter Masala (Paneer Makhani) Recipe with Step by Step Pictures. Popular restaurant style paneer butter masala made easily at home. Creamy and flavourful butter paneer is so easy to make at home. You can serve it with naan, roti, pulao or jeera pulao.


paneer butter masala served in a grey bowl with cream drizzled on top and garnished with coriander leavesPin


WHAT IS PANEER BUTTER MASALA?
Paneer butter masala also known as butter paneer is a thick, rich and creamy tomato based curry in which paneer cubes is fried and soaked. This curry is little sweet and not that spicy at all.

This is a popular recipe in any restaurants similar to kadai paneer, shahi paneer, palak paneer and malai kofta.
ne of the question which I get often "should I fry paneer or not?. Personally I think homemade fresh paneer needs no frying, you can slice them up and use them directly in curries. Some store bought paneer has weird smell which can be eliminated through frying. In case you want to fry your paneer, this is how you do it.

Cube paneer into small pieces.
Heat oil for frying, add paneer cubes and shallow fry them till light golden. Make sure you stir them inbetween for even colour.
Strain the fried paneer and immerse them in warm water till use.
When adding to gravy, strain the paneer and add to curries.
½ cup vegetable oil

½ pound paneer, cut into 1/2-inch cubes

2 tablespoons butter

2 onions, finely chopped

1 teaspoon ginger paste

1 teaspoon garlic paste

1 tablespoon ground cashews

1 teaspoon ground red chiles

½ teaspoon ground cumin

½ teaspoon ground coriander

½ teaspoon garam masala

1 (8 ounce) can tomato sauce

½ cup half-and-half

½ cup milk

½ teaspoon white sugar

½ teaspoon salt